
I am pleased to write this letter of recommendation for Anup Kumar and I am happy to know that he has decided to pursue his Masters. I would like to throw some light on this his contribution towards the team and project and his associations with our clients which I have observed his performance over the years as an Executive Director and Program Head at Morgan-StanleyMrogan-Stanlety,NY within the Institutional Securities Group.  

Anup was initially a part of the Securities and Trade Capture team and looking at his exceptional performance we he had pulled him
into our PioneerPinoeer program in 2015, where we planned to rewrite/revamped the entire post trade booking and reporting application of Morganstanley which would seamlessly allow front-to-back office reconciliation of the books and records of all our OTC products. Anup wasproved us right after playing an instrumental role in making all the Corporate Loans and Portfolio Loan productsLoan  products transition onto the new post trade booking platform. It was designed and delivered from scratch which manifested as a highly scalable and resilient system that provided real-time view of all the post trade activities on the Loan Products.   
Making Loans go-live onto Pioneer Prime Platform was critical as Loans was one of the initial products to be rolled out and Anup’s initiative efforts was appreciatedwastowards this cause was very much evident and appreciated by our clients and colleagues across  Dev,QA and Production teams and he was recognized with awarded the MorganStanley Finance IT Quarterly award for the same.
HLooking at his analytical skills and profound understanding of design, earned him a spot we included him in the Finance IT Architecture group  where he could liaison and provide inputs to other teams in their endeavours of onboarding more other products. like Liquid Flow Rates e.g Interest Rate For his efforts with this group,
Derivatives,Structured Notes ,Equity Swaps, CDS, FX  etc .. 
He received another award for his ability to His design and coordinate productcoordinate of seamlessly allowing the product controllers and users spread across all regions and  to seamlessly post adjustments on all post trade lifecycle events in a non blocking and asynchronous manner. got him another Quarterly Award of our group.  

He is an enthusiastic learner and is enthusiasm towards learning is very evident that he is planning to pursue his masters and I wish him all the best as he embarks on graduate program.



Anup reminds me of a person with lot of enthusiasm and his pleasent aura who spans across the teams  
He not only has a strong will to solve problems but also is equally talented  to solve them  in an optimum way.Presently I am a Director at TIAA and I was Anup's direct manager back in 2013 in Morgan-Sanley Mumbai India.  Anup was one of the most promising team members I had back then and I am  happy to learn that he has decided to pursue his further studies, and I believe that he bears the credentials to perform his best in the graduate-level program  at your university.

Back in 2013 Morgan Stanley India was exapanding, I was asked to head the Trade Capture System for the Financial Product Controller Group within Morgan. I was given a team that was relatively new, inexperienced about the intricate working of an Investment Bank and Anup was a one of
the fresh recruit who had joined my team. Even though he had no prior experience on the working of Investment Bank he had the will to learn by aksing correct questions and
skill to understand and apply them. Within a matter of few months he was able to explain front to back flow of trade-capture, trade-execution, post-trade and settlement workflows within Morganstanley Trade Boooking system. This was an impressive feat as these systems are pretty complex which
spanned across 12-15 different projects built on different technology solutions like Java, Python , Unix and Dotnet .As we were still a new team Anup played a key role in smooth on boarding of his fellow colleagues by carrying out various team grooming and training sessions. His willingness to seamlessley share information not only made him liked by people of dev and our 
clinets, but folks from  other team also started interacting with him seeking information about system functionality and technical working.

 Fixing the breaks between OTC trades that is initiated by the trades and the settled trades which is approved by the product controller always remains a big challenge in the Investment Banking world. By the time the trade information reaches the the product controller its alreday passed through 15 - 20 systems. Analysis of these breaks was still a manual process done by our users. 48 Based on the information he had gained over Anup he came with a design of a Rule Engine Based Trade Break Analyzer which automated the the manual process of analysing the issues between 49 the trader view and controller view if the trades. This was welcomed by the controller and user group as collectively they were
able to save 60 man - work hours per week !!! which was a significant operational streamlining process . The generic design of the end product allowed it to be adopetd by other teams 

Over the years while working with him I have noticed that he is a very good listener and responds to any information with logical questions which have allowe him to be absolutely precise with his requirements and keep a good track things in a very dynamic envoronment of investment banking. 





